Joseph Smith—History 1:15–20
The First Vision
As a young man in 1820, Joseph Smith studied and prayed to know which church to join.
God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to Joseph Smith in response to his prayer.

D&C 1:37–38
Jesus Christ’s words shall all be fulfilled.
The Lord revealed section 1 as a preface to the other revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants and warned all people of His coming judgments.
The prophecies and promises spoken by the voice of Jesus Christ or His servants will all be fulfilled.

D&C 6:36
Look unto Christ in every thought.
Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were given this revelation while translating the Book of Mormon.
As we look to Jesus Christ, we can overcome doubt and fear.

D&C 8:2–3
Revelation comes to your mind and heart.
The Lord taught Oliver Cowdery how he could receive and recognize revelation by asking in faith.
The Holy Ghost reveals truth to our minds and hearts.

D&C 10:5
Pray always.
After Martin Harris lost 116 pages of the Book of Mormon manuscript, the Lord taught Joseph Smith one way to overcome the designs of Satan.
If we pray always, God will help us conquer Satan and his servants.

D&C 13:1
The Aaronic Priesthood was restored.
As Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery prayed to know about authority to baptize, John the Baptist appeared and conferred the Aaronic Priesthood upon them.
The Aaronic Priesthood holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins.

D&C 18:10–11
The worth of souls is great.
After describing the need for all people to repent, the Lord called Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer to teach repentance to others.
An evidence of each soul’s great worth to God is that Jesus Christ took upon Himself the pains of all mankind.

D&C 18:15–16
Great joy comes from bringing souls unto Jesus Christ.
The Lord taught Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer about the worth of souls and called them to teach repentance to others.
As we help others come unto Jesus Christ, we experience great joy.

D&C 19:16–19
Jesus Christ suffered for all of us.
After teaching about the Day of Judgment and testifying of His atoning sacrifice, the Lord commanded Martin Harris to repent of his sins.
Jesus Christ suffered for the sins of all mankind so that we would not have to suffer for our sins if we would repent.

D&C 19:23
Learn of the Savior, and listen to His words.
Martin Harris was commanded to repent, sell a portion of his land so that the Book of Mormon could be published, and seek the Lord.
We are blessed with peace as we listen to the Savior and follow Him.

D&C 25:13
Cleave to your covenants.
During a time of persecution and worry, the Lord comforted and advised Emma Smith.
We can find joy and comfort in keeping the covenants we have made with God.

D&C 46:33
Practice virtue and holiness continually.
The Lord revealed gifts of the Holy Spirit and taught the importance of doing all things according to His will.
We must strive to be virtuous and holy at all times.

D&C 58:27
Be anxiously engaged in a good cause.
The Lord instructed those who had gathered to Independence, Missouri, to counsel among themselves and do good rather than waiting to be commanded in all things.
We should be anxiously engaged in choosing to do good things and in bringing to pass righteousness.

D&C 58:42–43
To repent we must confess and forsake sin.
The Lord taught the Saints who had just arrived in Missouri how they could build up Zion and be forgiven of their sins.
If we will confess and forsake our sins, the Lord will forgive us and remember our sins no more.

D&C 64:9–11
We should forgive all men.
The Lord taught the Saints in Kirtland, Ohio, to stop being critical of Joseph Smith and start to forgive one another.
If we do not follow the commandment to forgive all men, then God will not forgive us of our sins.

D&C 76:22–24
Jesus Christ lives.
While receiving a vision of the three degrees of glory, Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon saw Jesus Christ.
Jesus Christ lives and is the Only Begotten Son of God the Father.

D&C 76:40–41
Jesus Christ was crucified and bore our sins.
While receiving a vision of the three degrees of glory, Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon learned that all of God’s children will eventually inherit a kingdom of glory—except the sons of perdition.
The gospel is the glad tidings that Jesus Christ came to bear the sins of the world so that we could be cleansed from all unrighteousness.

D&C 78:19
Receive all things with thankfulness.
The Lord commanded Church leaders to establish storehouses and to enter a covenant to care for the poor among them.
If we receive all things from God with thankfulness, He will give us additional blessings.

D&C 82:10
The Lord is bound to bless the obedient.
At a general conference of the Church, the Lord chastised His servants for their sins and their failure to obey revelations He had previously given.
If we will obey the Lord, He will always keep His promises to bless us.

D&C 88:124
Cease to be idle and unclean.
The Lord gave His servants specific commandments to prepare them for their missions and to eventually meet the Savior.
If we will cease to sleep longer than needed, retire to bed early, and arise early, we are promised that our bodies and minds can be invigorated.

D&C 89:18–21
Blessings of the Word of Wisdom
After instructing the Saints to avoid harmful substances and to partake of those that are healthy, the Lord promised blessings for obedience.
If we will obey the Word of Wisdom, we will receive blessings of health, treasures of knowledge, strength, and protection.

D&C 107:8
The Melchizedek Priesthood administers in spiritual things.
The Lord revealed that the Melchizedek Priesthood is called after a great high priest from ancient days. The Lord described the offices and duties of the priesthood.
The Melchizedek Priesthood is the greater priesthood and administers in spiritual things.

D&C 121:36, 41–42
The principles of righteousness give power to the priesthood.
In a letter from Liberty Jail, Joseph Smith recorded the Lord’s words of comfort to the righteous and the consequences that would come to priesthood holders who had been unrighteous.
The power of the priesthood can only be controlled on the principles of righteousness.

D&C 130:22–23
The Father and Son have bodies of flesh and bones.
Responding to questions, Joseph Smith clarified and expounded several points of doctrine.
The Father and the Son have physical bodies of flesh and bone, and the Holy Ghost is a personage of spirit.

D&C 131:1–4
The new and everlasting covenant of marriage
While visiting Saints in Ramus, Illinois, Joseph Smith taught the importance of celestial marriage.
To obtain exaltation in the highest degree of the celestial kingdom, we must enter into the new and everlasting covenant of marriage.
