reference
summary
context
doctrine or principle

Matthew 5:14–16
Let your light so shine.
In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus Christ taught His disciples about how living the gospel affects others.
One’s example of living the gospel can encourage others to draw nearer to God.

Matthew 11:28–30
Come unto me.
As some people rejected Jesus, He offered promises to those who would accept Him.
If we come unto Jesus Christ, He will ease our burdens.

Matthew 16:15–19
The keys of the kingdom
In Caesarea Philippi, Jesus Christ instructed His Apostles about what is necessary to lead the Church.
The Church of Jesus Christ is built upon revelation from God. Those who hold priesthood keys are authorized to govern the kingdom of God on the earth.

Matthew 22:36–39
Love the Lord; love thy neighbor.
Jesus Christ responded to a Pharisee who asked which commandment was the greatest.
The two greatest commandments are to love God and to love our neighbor.

Matthew 28:19–20
Teach and baptize all nations.
After His Resurrection, Jesus Christ gave instructions to His disciples.
As followers of Jesus Christ, we are to teach and baptize all nations.

Luke 24:36–39
A resurrected body has flesh and bones.
On the day of His Resurrection, Jesus Christ appeared to His disciples in Jerusalem and showed them His resurrected body.
Jesus Christ is a resurrected being. A resurrected body is a body of flesh and bones.

John 3:5
Born of water and of the Spirit
A Pharisee named Nicodemus asked what Jesus Christ meant by being “born again.”
Baptism and receiving the Holy Ghost are necessary ordinances for spiritual rebirth and entering the celestial kingdom.


John 14:6
The way, the truth, and the life
During the Last Supper, Jesus Christ answered Thomas’s question about how the disciples could know the way to the Father.
The only way to receive eternal life and dwell with Father in Heaven is through Jesus Christ.

John 14:15
If ye love me, keep my commandments.
During the Last Supper, Jesus Christ taught His disciples how they could show their love for Him.
We manifest our love for the Lord by keeping His commandments.

John 17:3
Knowing God and Jesus Christ is eternal life.
The night before His Crucifixion, Jesus Christ prayed for His followers.
As we come to truly know Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ, we can obtain eternal life.

Acts 2:36–38
Repent, be baptized, and receive the Holy Ghost.
Fifty days after the Savior’s Resurrection, the Apostle Peter taught a multitude in Jerusalem what they must do to be saved.
Repentance and baptism for the remission of sins prepare us to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.

Acts 3:19–21
The times of restitution
The Apostle Peter testified to a multitude in Jerusalem concerning our day.
Prophets in all ages have foretold the latter-day restitution (restoration) of all things.

1 Corinthians 6:19–20
Your body is a temple.
In a letter to members of the Church in Corinth, the Apostle Paul taught the Saints why sexual sins were so serious.
Our bodies are sacred like temples and should be clean and holy.

1 Corinthians 15:20–22
In Christ shall all be resurrected.
When some Saints in Corinth taught that there is no resurrection of the dead, the Apostle Paul wrote to correct them.
Because Jesus Christ overcame death and was resurrected, all mankind will also be resurrected.

1 Corinthians 15:40–42
Degrees of glory
In a letter to members of the Church in Corinth, the Apostle Paul answered questions about how the dead will be raised and what kind of body they will be resurrected with.
Resurrected bodies differ in glory just as the sun, moon, and stars differ in their brightness.

Galatians 5:22–23
Fruit of the Spirit
In a letter to the Saints in Galatia, the Apostle Paul taught about the qualities that the Spirit instills in those who seek to “walk in the Spirit.”
Having the Holy Ghost often results in feelings of love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, and temperance.

Ephesians 4:11–14
Apostles and prophets help perfect the Saints.
In an epistle to the Saints in Ephesus, the Apostle Paul taught about the organization and purpose of the Church.
The Church organization is given by God for perfecting and edifying the Saints and accomplishing the work of the ministry.

Philippians 4:13
I can do all things through Christ.
While imprisoned, the Apostle Paul wrote to encourage the Saints in Philippi.
Jesus Christ can strengthen us to do whatever God requires of us.

2 Thessalonians 2:1–3
Apostasy foretold
Some of the Saints in Thessalonica believed the Second Coming of Jesus Christ would soon occur. In his letter to them, the Apostle Paul corrected this misunderstanding.
It was foretold that a period of apostasy would precede the Second Coming of Jesus Christ.

2 Timothy 3:15–17
Scripture given for doctrine, reproof, and correction
The Apostle Paul wrote to Timothy and encouraged him as he faced challenges among Church members.
The inspired doctrine, reproof, and correction found in scripture will help lead us to salvation.

Hebrews 12:9
God is the Father of our spirits.
The Apostle Paul encouraged members of the Church to be faithful to their Heavenly Father.
God is the Father of our spirits, and we should be obedient to Him.

James 1:5–6
If you lack wisdom, ask God.
James wrote to Church members about how to obtain divine guidance.
God willingly gives wisdom to those who ask of Him in faith.

James 2:17–18
Faith without works is dead.
James wrote to Church members in response to some who claimed that works were not needed to express their faith.
Faith without works is dead.

1 Peter 4:6
The gospel is preached to the dead.
When the Saints in Asia Minor were going through many trials, the Apostle Peter wrote and assured them that Jesus Christ was the Savior and judge of the living and the dead.
The gospel is preached to those who have died so they may have the same opportunity as those who heard the gospel message in mortality.

Revelation 20:12
Judged before God
While on the Isle of Patmos, the Apostle John saw a vision of all the dead being brought before God to be judged.
Everyone will be judged by God according to their works out of the books that have been written.
