Moses 1:39
This is God’s work and glory.
While on a high mountain, God spoke with Moses face-to-face and explained His eternal purpose for mankind.
Heavenly Father’s plan provides a way for us to live forever and become like Him.

Moses 7:18
Zion—one heart and one mind in righteousness
Enoch taught the gospel and established a city of righteousness during a time of great wickedness.
The Lord’s people are united, live righteously, and care for one another.

Abraham 3:22–23
Abraham was chosen before he was born.
God taught Abraham about premortal spirits.
We lived with God before birth, and He chose His noble and great children to become rulers and leaders here upon the earth.

Genesis 1:26–27
God created man in His own image.
The Creation account sets forth the placing of Adam and Eve on the earth.
Men and women are created in God’s image and given dominion over all animals and creatures on the earth.

Genesis 2:24
Husbands and wives should be one.
Following the creation of Eve, God taught Adam and Eve that unity should exist in their marriage.
Marriage between a man and a woman is ordained of God.

Genesis 39:9
Joseph resisted temptation.
Joseph was repeatedly approached by Potiphar’s wife to commit adultery.
Sexual immorality is a sin against God.

Exodus 19:5–6
Ye shall be a holy nation.
At Mount Sinai, the Lord invited the children of Israel to become His covenant people.
If we obey the Lord’s voice and keep His covenants, then we will become His holy people.

Exodus 20:3–17
The Ten Commandments
Near Mount Sinai, the Lord gave the children of Israel commandments through His servant Moses.
As we keep the Ten Commandments, we live in harmony with God and man.

Joshua 24:15
Choose to serve the Lord.
Joshua taught the children of Israel what the Lord had done to preserve them. He encouraged them to serve the Lord.
We can choose whether or not we will serve the Lord and follow Him.

1 Samuel 16:7
The Lord looks on the heart.
Samuel assumed that Eliab, the eldest son of Jesse, was the one the Lord had selected to be Israel’s new king because of his strong physical appearance.
God judges us by our thoughts and desires rather than by our outward appearance.

Psalm 24:3–4
Clean hands, pure heart
In a psalm (song) of praise to God, the psalmist asked who would be worthy to stand in holy places such as temples.
If we repent and live pure lives, then we are worthy to receive temple ordinances and enter the celestial kingdom.

Psalm 119:105
God’s word is a lamp unto my feet.
In a psalm (song) about God’s law, the psalmist compared God’s word to a light that guides us on the path of life.
The word of God gives direction for our lives.

Psalm 127:3
Children are an heritage of the Lord.
A psalm (song) about God’s blessings teaches that children are a precious gift from God.
Children are to be cherished as gifts from God.

Proverbs 3:5–6
Trust in the Lord.
The book of Proverbs contains gospel principles, poems, and parables that encourage righteous living.
If we place our complete trust in God, He will guide us in our lives.

Isaiah 1:18
Though your sins be as scarlet
Through the prophet Isaiah, the Lord encouraged His children to repent and become clean.
When we repent, the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from our sins and we can be completely forgiven.

Isaiah 5:20
Woe unto them that call evil good.
Isaiah warned the children of Israel of the sorrow and suffering that would come upon them because of their unrighteousness.
Unhappiness results when people promote evil as good and call good evil.

Isaiah 29:13–14
A marvelous work and a wonder
Isaiah prophesied that the Lord would restore the gospel in the latter days, following a time of apostasy.
The Restoration of the gospel is a marvelous work that corrects false doctrines and counters the wisdom of the world.

Isaiah 53:3–5
Jesus Christ bore our griefs and suffered for our sins.
Isaiah prophesied of the life and atoning mission of Jesus Christ approximately 700 years before His birth.
Jesus Christ suffered for our sins and sorrows; we can be forgiven and healed through the Atonement.

Isaiah 58:6–7
The law of the fast
After the prophet Isaiah identified ways the people were failing to live the law of the fast, he taught them about the true purposes and blessings of fasting.
Fasting helps relieve the burdens of ourselves and others and helps us care for the poor.

Isaiah 58:13–14
The Sabbath is the Lord’s holy day.
The prophet Isaiah instructed the people to keep the Sabbath day holy and taught about the blessings that come from Sabbath-day observance.
If we honor God by seeking to do His will on the Sabbath day, then we will prosper.

Jeremiah 1:4–5
Jeremiah was foreordained before birth.
As the Lord called Jeremiah to prophesy to the people of Judah, He revealed that Jeremiah had been ordained to be a prophet before he was born.
God knew us before we were born and foreordained us for earthly missions.

Ezekiel 37:15–17
The Bible and the Book of Mormon are joined together.
Ezekiel prophesied that as part of the gathering of Israel in the last days, the Bible and the Book of Mormon would be joined together.
The Bible and the Book of Mormon have come together to witness of Jesus Christ in our day.

Amos 3:7
God reveals His secret to His prophets.
As the prophet Amos warned of coming judgments of the Lord, he testified that God reveals knowledge to His prophets.
The Lord reveals His will through prophets.

Malachi 3:8–10
Paying tithing brings blessings.
Through the prophet Malachi, the Lord taught wayward Israel to return to Him by living the law of tithing.
If we pay tithes and offerings, then God will open the windows of heaven and pour out blessings upon us.

Malachi 4:5–6
Elijah will turn the hearts of fathers and children.
Malachi prophesied that before the Second Coming of Jesus Christ, the prophet Elijah would restore the authority to perform ordinance work for the dead.
Because Elijah came and restored priesthood keys, we can perform ordinance work for our kindred dead.
